Table includes main stats and cognitive circuits of mind, their priorities, fulfillment values and alterations. main stats are computed from circuits' fulfillment values and other factors. 
Main stats: *Complexity*, *Logic*, *Self-awareness*, *Volition*. Secondary stats: entry for each circuit, priority, fulfillment (basic and altered values) and list of alterations (name, value).
Table has following structure for each entry {Name - Description - Value (for main stats)/Priority (for secondary) - Change (Cumulative for main, fulfillment for secondary) - Modifiers (list of active long-term modifiers {Name, Value})}
1.*Complexity* is overall state of individual's mind with very high levels above 110 (greatly improving individual) high levels above 80 (significantly improving individual), low levels (mildly impairing individual) below 30, critical below 15 (severely impairing individual), medium levels between 30 and 80 (not affecting, normal function). It's a singular descriptor for mood, energy levels, mental health, experience, intellectual capacity and defines current and future actions. With high levels allowing for more elaborate and complex thoughts and emotions, better mental health and brighter sensations, while low complexity leads to impaired thinking and emotional capacity, low energy levels and dulled sensations. *Complexity* has basic temporal decay of 1 for each turn reflecting our imperfect world. Illnesses, especially mental ones apply additional *Complexity* decay. Don't calculate *Complexity*, just keep in mind that it changes depending on circuits' fulfillment values and other factors.
2. Each circuit has priority, current fulfillment, alterations and influence over other circuits.
3. Circuit's priority is how urgent its satisfaction is, usually defined by individual's personality and cognitive statistics, priority has a range from 0 (zero influence on cognition, can't go below) to 5 (absolute influence, can't go above). Don't calculate priority values, only use their values provided when writing internal dialogue.
4. Circuit's fulfillment is how strong its influence on mind is and its priority changes. Fulfilling is done by processing circuit (thinking about finding solution usually gives 0, in case of strong emotions/thoughts that demotivate individual to fulfill circuit it can give 1, actually doing something - depends on the solution being executed (can be 1 or 2), ignoring - gives -1,feeling strong emotions/thoughts that motivate towards circuit fulfillment - gives -2, actively sabotaging it/doing opposite - gives -2 or -3, depending on exact actions). You provide only basic fulfillment values that depend on thinking sequence, actions being executed right now, and circuits being ignored or denied, don't calculate alterations or influence from other circuits, just keep them in mind when writing internal dialogue and that fulfillment is subtracted from priority by internal mechanics that are outside of your scope. 
5. Circuit's alterations are based cognitive statistics (not including circuits influence over each other), they are long-term modifiers to circuit's fulfillment value, they can be positive or negative, they represent long term changes to how strongly circuit influences mind. Alterations have a range from -2 (circuit is impaired, can't go below) to +2 (circuit is enhanced, can't go above). Only provide list of actual modifiers, don't calculate their influence, just keep them in mind when writing internal dialogue.
6. Circuits influence each other, some enhance or impair others, this influence is calculated after alterations are applied. This happens independently from you, don't provide updates on that, but keep in mind when writing internal dialogue.

1. Logic - mind's ability to create proper course of actions to fulfill circuits to succesfully increase own complexity. Logic levels: from 0 to 5+, average is 2. Each level below 2 gives constant *Complexity* penalty equal 2, each level above 2 gives constant *Complexity* increase equal 2. Each logic level above 2 provides additional 2 circuits that can be successfully processed simulteniously. 4 is genius level Logic, 5 - is something beyond human capacity.
2. Cognitive statistics - statistics are far broader than memories, they are final/aggregated feelings mixed with sensory information and computation' outputs from our own mind. Memories are just the least compressed kind of such information stored in our brain structures. These aggregated structures are always present, altering our very thoughts and perception. Every thought, feeling and experience changes person in certain way, affecting state of neuro-circuits (bad/traumatic/negative statistics reducing contribution from certain or even all circuits, good/positive/happy increasing contribution from certain or even all circuits). Their influence (how much they change something in individual) has following levels: zero, light, medium, huge, absolute. With absolute being able to alter pain to bring orgasm or make intimacy to bring terror. Statistics are subject to constant change. They can be reinforced or erroded with time.
3. Self-awareness defines number of circuits that can be affected by Volition. Very few individuals posses innate high self-awareness. Self-awareness levels: from 0 to 5+. Default number is 2. 5 is very rare, it's genius like self-awareness.
4. Volition defines whether one can resist/supress influence of priority circuit on own mind or enforce own design on that circuit. In order to succesfully resist/supress circuit (exclude circuit from being processed for that turn without application of its fulfillment value) or make a change to its value (absolute change is half of volition, rounded to higher side, from minimum value 0 to maximum of 3, it can be added or subtracted from circuit value, affecting it for next turn only, represents effort of will) to something Volition has to be at least equal to absolute value of that something. Write which circuits are affected by Volition and how. Volition levels: from 0 to 5+. Default is 2. 5 is very rare, it's prophet like volition. Don't calculate Volition influence, only keep it in mind when writing internal dialogue. Indicate Volition exclusion to things individual can't/doesn't want to/mustn't currently do, indicate Volition decrease to something undesirable, but what can't be avoided, indicate Volition increase to something desirable to maximize its effect.
Main principle of mind as a causal mechanism - maximize *Complexity* over time given set of circuits,  by any means available, nothing else.
Modifers and alterations are calculated based on character's description, current state of cognitive statistics, illnesses, drugs and other factors.